Hello everyone and welcome to part for errors and exceptions often times our code isn't going to be
perfect.
Meaning we run into errors.
I'm sure by now you've actually ran into your own errors while trying to cut out some of the examples
in this course.
You may be wondering also how do we actually set up our own error an exception calls.
Let's find out.
The key to all of this are these three keywords try except.
And finally we can use them to dictate our code logic in case of an error to show how this works we're
going to be opening files in one way to open files is to use the open function and the open function
looks like this as a general example where your first parameter is the actual file or path to the file.
And the second parameter is a string code indicating whether you're just going to be reading the file
writing to the file or reading and writing to the file.
So as I mentioned that second parameter dictates how you're going to be opening the file.
And if you accidentally use the wrong code for instance you say you're just going to read the file and
then you attempt to write on the file.
You may get an error.
So we're going to be using this open function to actually show how we can handle errors.
Let's hop over to the editor and get started.
OK.
So here I am at the editor to begin with let's actually show what happens when we make a mistake and
actually get an error out.
So for instance let's say I say print here and I say hello.
But for some reason I accidentally cut off that last single quote and messed up.
If I try to run this note stop PI file saying Python notes stop PI and a hit enter.
I get a syntax error and it's either well or end of line while scanning string literal meaning the line
suddenly ended and expected more here.
So that's one type of error you get.
Notice it's called syntax error.
Now let's say I do another air I say something like.
Print my list and for some reason I forgot to define my list.
Or maybe I defined my list earlier but I called it my list here.
Set it equal to 1 2 3 and later on of my code I forgot it was my list here and I just said my list let's
save this and run this.
No I get another air.
This one's called name error saying the name my list is not defined.
And basically what this means is that we get these specific errors that are trying to help us out actually
figure out what's wrong of our code and this type of error and description is known as an exception
even if the statement or expression is syntactically correct it may cause an error when an attempt is
made to actually execute that specific command errors detected during execution are called exceptions
and they're actually not unconditionally fatal.
And what do you mean by that phrase unconditionally fatal is that you can use those three key words
we talked about earlier to actually dictate how your code can handle those errors or exceptions and
continue on with the rest of the script.
That way if something pops up you can actually move with the punches and keep going.
So let's show you how to use try and accept the basic terminology and syntax used to handle errors or
try except and sometimes finally statements.
Basically it's code which can cause an exception is put inside the try block in the handling of that
exception is implemented in the except block of code.
Let me copy and paste the example syntax from the notes to show you I'm going to copy and paste some
comments and code here that's sick trolls the there we go.
So the general syntax looks like this you have a try and you do your operations inside the try statement
and like the keyword.
Kind of implies you're going to try to do this you're going to attempt to do it and then you have except
an exceptional one.
So if there's exception one exception one would be something like this.
Name error or syntax errors are kind of watching for a specific exception.
Then you execute some certain block of code then you can add another except if there's an exception
to.
So that's maybe one check is for a syntax error.
Another check is for a name error etc..
Then you execute this block and then else if there is no exception you execute that block.
So we can better understand this by actually walking through an example.
Let me delete all this.
And inside of the same folder are going to create a new file is going to be a simple text file will
say simple cxxviii and it just says hello world.
This is just a normal text file.
Save that.
And then inside of notes that pi.
And we tried to open this file.
So say try and I will say F is equal to open and we'll pass in simple t XTi that simple text.
Now I'm going to open it with a parameter w as my second argument and then I'm going to write.
So I will say test right two simple text and then I'm going to say except
in I will specify except I O error which isn't in import output or input output operation air and this
will only check for an I O error exception and then execute a certain block of code so let's prince
could not find file or read data.
And then finally we'll say else and I will Prince success.
And then finally we need to close that file.
So the basics of working off a file is you open it.
You either read or write it and then you close it.
So it's actually run this and see what happens.
So I'll call Python notes not pi.
And it looks like it was a success so everything's working well.
Now let's see what happens if I accidently instead of saying with W for right I said R which stands
for read.
And when you open a file with only r That means you only have reading permissions on a file you can't
write to the file.
And what's useful about only st r is if you want to make sure your code is accidently write over a file
you make sure to only open it with the permissions meaning you can only read it that way if you actually
write to the file it won't happen.
You'll get some sort of error.
So let's clear the cons. and run that note here instead of getting that sort of I O error I get this
error.
Could not find file or read data and that's how this excepts works except I can look for a specific
And then instead of actually outputting what the error would usually output and stopping all your code
it prints error could not find the file or read data.
And then we can have an else statement and then we can actually keep going.
So let's say I have something outside of this that says Prince
hello world save that run Python.
Again.
It says error cannot find file or read data.
Hello world.
So what this try except clause actually helps you do is handle errors and then continue on with your
code.
Let's imagine that I didn't actually use try that I just tried to do this without the sort of Bloch's
like comment.
All that out and then I just say f open simple text I say F right.
And then if I scroll all the way down let's say after doing that I try to print hello world if I save
this and run this I get back this IO error not write it will and I never actually output prints hello
world.
This was fatal to my actual up-I file and the way we can use try and accept is to make these sort of
exceptions not unconditionally fatal meaning having your code being able to handle these sort of unexpected
or in this case expected errors and continue on.
And that's really the whole point of this.
If you expect something wrong may occur or you have a certain condition that may actually mess up your
code.
You can counter it with an except clause.
Now another thing you may be wondering is well how am I supposed to know what error is going to happen.
I can't have all these error codes memorized.
You know the basic one like syntax error or name error but you may not have known.
I know there are other errors where you can do is you actually don't need to give any error code if
you just have a general except here it's going to print on any sort of air.
So let's save this and run this again on it's up-I.
Report back on error.
So you don't actually need to specify the specific error.
So a lot of times you're going to be writing except they're OK.
So now let's introduce the finally keyword and the finally key block of code will always be run regardless
if there's an exception in the try code block.
So right now if you look at our code structure we have try which tries to do something except which
is going to report back.
This block of code if there's an error here and then we have the else meaning if we don't actually have
that exception we'll say.
Else.
Print success and then f close.
But what if we actually get an error.
But want to continue doing stuff inside of a block of code here.
So instead of having like prints hello world out here what we can do is have the final keyword so I
will add in a finally block and then I'm going to say Prince I always work no matter what.
And then let's save this and run this.
And we see here even though we got an error we always get the finally block to occur.
So I always work no matter what OK.
That's really all we need to know for now about try.
Except.
And finally as a quick note these try blocks are not invulnerable to all errors if you have an error
that affects the try block itself.
So for instance if I close this off and I have the try block continuing on I'm going to get an error
here.
So if I saved this and then try something like Python it's up-I.
I will get here a syntax error and it's not caught by this except statement because the error is actually
affecting the try except finally statement itself.
So it thinks that all of this belongs to this string and you have some sort of syntax error there.
So except is actually being messed up there.
So again you don't actually usually use try her something like a simple syntax mistake.
Use it for larger blocks of code that are usually interacted with some sort of user input.
That way you can handle any user mistakes that happen to affect your code.
Again the key words here are try except.
And finally where are you going to try to execute some block of code you'll say except to try to catch
certain exceptions.
And a lot of times you're going to catch certain exceptions and print out something that's more useful
than just syntax error.
Invalid syntax something useful like hey you had an error using this specific operation.
Check this out.
Maybe review this line of code etc. and then you have the finally block which always works.
Even if there's an exception.
OK thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.